 ## Line Coding
 Converting a string of 1’s and 0’s
(digital data) into a sequence of signals
that denote the 1’s and 0’s.
 For example a high voltage level (+V)
could represent a “1” and a low voltage
level (0 or -V) could represent a “0”.

## Relationship between data rate and signal rate
 The data rate defines the number of bits sent
per sec - bps. It is often referred to the bit
rate.
 The signal rate is the number of signal
elements sent in a second and is measured in
bauds. It is also referred to as the modulation
rate.
 Goal is to increase the data rate whilst
reducing the baud rate.

## Considerations for choosing a good signal element referred to as line encoding
 Baseline wandering - a receiver will evaluate
the average power of the received signal
(called the baseline) and use that to determine
the value of the incoming data elements. If
the incoming signal does not vary over a long
period of time, the baseline will drift and thus
cause errors in detection of incoming data
elements.
 A good line encoding scheme will prevent long
runs of fixed amplitude.
- DC components - when the voltage
level remains constant for long periods
of time, there is an increase in the low
frequencies of the signal. Most channels
are bandpass and may not support the
low frequencies.
 This will require the removal of the dc
component of a transmitted signal.
 Self synchronization - the clocks at the
sender and the receiver must have the
same bit interval.
 If the receiver clock is faster or slower it
will misinterpret the incoming bit
stream.
Error detection - errors occur during
transmission due to line impairments.
 Some codes are constructed such that
when an error occurs it can be
detected. For example: a particular
signal transition is not part of the code.
When it occurs, the receiver will know
that a symbol error has occurred.
 Noise and interference - there are line
encoding techniques that make the
transmitted signal “immune” to noise
and interference.
 This means that the signal cannot be
corrupted, it is stronger than error
detection.



## Digital signal encoding Format-
