## Ambiguity 
in multiple inheritance arises when a derived class inherits from two or more base classes that have members with the same name (e.g., methods or variables). The compiler cannot decide which version of the member to use when accessed from the derived class, leading to ambiguity.

#include <iostream>
using namespace std;

class Base1 {
public:
    void show() {
        cout << "Base1 show function" << endl;
    }
};

class Base2 {
public:
    void show() {
        cout << "Base2 show function" << endl;
    }
};

class Derived : public Base1, public Base2 {
public:
    void callShow() {
        // This causes ambiguity because both Base1 and Base2 have show() function
        show();  // Error: Which show to call?
    }
};

int main() {
    Derived obj;
    obj.callShow();  // Ambiguity occurs here
    return 0;
}


## Resolve
        // Resolve ambiguity by specifying which base class's show to call
        Base1::show();  // Calls Base1's show
        Base2::show();  // Calls Base2's show


## A virtual base class 
is a mechanism used in `diamond-shaped `inheritance to ensure that only one instance of the base class is inherited by the derived class, even if the base class appears multiple times in the inheritance hierarchy.

class A {
public:
    A() {
        cout << "Constructor of A" << endl;
    }
};

class B : virtual public A {
public:
    B() {
        cout << "Constructor of B" << endl;
    }
};

class C : virtual public A {
public:
    C() {
        cout << "Constructor of C" << endl;
    }
};

class D : public B, public C {
public:
    D() {
        cout << "Constructor of D" << endl;
    }
};


## Q3
A pure virtual function is a function that is declared in a class but does not have a definition in that class. Instead, it forces derived classes to provide an implementation. 
It is used to define an interface that derived classes must implement, making the base class an abstract class. An abstract class cannot be instantiated directly, but it can be used as a base class for other classes.
A pure virtual function is declared by appending = 0 to the function signature in the class definition.

- If a derived class does not implement the pure virtual function, it will also become abstract.
- In cases of multiple inheritance, if a derived class inherits multiple base classes with pure virtual functions, it must implement all pure virtual functions from each base class to avoid being abstract itself.

